# discord-clone

The Discord Clone was another fun full-stack project which put my knowledge of React and Node to the test. This application contains the basic functionalities of the Discord App which include creating, updating, and deleting an account, adding or deleting friends, and sending messages to those on your friend's list which can also be updated or deleted.

At the beginning during the design phase of this project, I struggled a bit with creating the data models because I wasn't sure how I was going to implement a friend request system and how I was going to handle the chats/messages between users. But after doing some research on potential solutions, I opted to create a friend model to manage the friend status between users and a chat model to store messages between the participating users on top of having the basic user and message models. I mostly only used two models in my previous projects, so I never realized how powerful of a method populate was until I started populating nested paths for data from other documents. I was really impressed because populating gave me all the information I needed to display on my React page without having to call the API a second time.

As for the front-end section of my Discord application, I revisited React hooks like useContext in order to store my API data on login so I could access my user information whenever I needed it without having to call the API again. I also used styled-components to create reusable components to reduce the CSS bloat and to improve website performance. 

Something I realized that I want to improve on after working on this project is creating a more RESTful API. I feel as though some of my endpoints could be merged such as the ones for updating the user profile and some of them could be named better. I also want to get into the habit of testing my code more which I started doing by using supertest with jest and Postman to test my API routes. While this application clearly has a lot of room for improvement, I'm still quite proud of it because it's another full-stack project that I've managed to complete.